offer to start 400 tests a day all right
briefing is underway let's listen
ternoon I have an announcement for you
on hospital funding as appropriated in
the third phase of coronavirus relief
the Trump administration will distribute
a total of 12 billion dollars in
provider relief fund payments to 395
hospitals across the country that have
been hardest hit by the Cova 19 pandemic
these hospitals have collectively cared
for over 70 percent of the 184 thousand
Americans that required hospital
inpatient care 10 billion of the 12
billion will go towards hospitals
treating 100 or more Kovan 19 admissions
HHS is distributing an additional 2
billion dollars to these 395 hospitals
in proportion to the amount of care they
provide to low-income and uninsured
patients this is consistent with our
effort to ensure that Americans who need
federal government assistance the most
receive it will be releasing a breakdown
of the states receiving this funding and
the counties receiving this funding
before your awareness New York New
Jersey and Illinois received the most
funding by States while New York New
York Bronx New York and Cook Illinois
received the most funding by county as
determined by our metrics our health
care providers as president Trump has
repeatedly acknowledged are our heroes
as we work to defeat the invisible enemy
this relief funding will help these
heroes defeat this virus and reacting to
Kara's relief I love what this one
provider said so he said thank you and
God thank you and God for this relief I
have tears in my eyes out of gratitude
for these funds thank you so so so much
additionally 100 flights as part of
project air bridge have been completed
to date these flights have expedited
nearly 1 billion pieces of PPE for our
health care heroes the third phase of
coronavirus relief also included 320
billion dollars in additional funding
for the paycheck protection program
which as you all know provides
forgivable loans to small businesses in
order to keep their employees on payroll
this program has been extraordinarily
successful during the first round of PPP
loans 1.6 million loans were issued to
small businesses
of those 1.6 million loans 1 million of
them were given to companies with 10 or
fewer employees so it has gone to small
businesses and businesses that need it
most
but the PPP look it's not just another
government program this is supporting
everyday Americans who through no fault
of their own have found themselves in
this predicament we saw this firsthand
at the White House on Tuesday on Tuesday
President Trump welcomes small business
owners and employees to the White House
these small businesses received PPP
loans which helped them pay their
employees during the pandemic
Betty Ann Bose was among the small
businesses welcomed to the White House
vidiian Bose employs
120 people with intellectual and
developmental disabilities it's a coffee
shop not too far away from here Biddy
and Bose had to temporarily close its
doors but because of PPP loans vidiian
Bose was able to rehire all of its
employees Amaya the real honor of
getting to meet Michael Hoyt he's one of
the employees at bitties and bimbos and
he offered some words of encouragement
to our country and they really touched
my heart and I think they'll touch the
heart of them of America if you guys
wouldn't mind playing those remarks
Thank You mr. president for having us I
love my job and I am excited about going
back to work I've been beause we like to
use the phrase called not broken that
means me and all my amazing how workers
are not broken and we have lots to offer
I know the great country of the United
States isn't broken either so I'm half
of myself Megan and Union all the
employees that being involved thank you
for inviting us over Michael is an
incredible young man I gave him a call
yesterday and asked him what he was up
to and he said he and his fellow
employees were literally handwriting
notes to put in with their coffee
packages that they send out to
consumerism I receive one of these notes
from another company and it really does
put a smile on your face and Michael's
doing that each and every day and
vidiian bows they represent the hope and
opportunity that is on the horizon for
America's workers as their body their
their business rather embodies the
American spirit workers like Michael's
show that this country is not broken and
that we will recover together Michael
thank you you're an American Hero thank
you for sharing that message of hope and
with that I'll take questions for the
first time thank you as well the markets
are down substantially today after the
president yesterday suggested in the
East Room that he might use tariffs to
punish Shia over the coronavirus is
there any serious consideration being
given to putting new tariffs on China or
or was the president just spitballing
yesterday look I won't get ahead of any
announcements from the president but I
will echo the president's displeasure
with China it's no secret that China has
handled this situation just a few
examples for you they did not share the
genetic sequence until a professor in
Shanghai did so on his own the very next
day
China shut down his lab for quote
rectification they slow-walked
information on human to human
transmission alongside the World Health
Organization and didn't let us
investigators and at a very important
time so
we take this pleasure with China's
actions but I certainly won't get ahead
of the President with those
announcements is the president seriously
considering forcing China to pay some
sort of compensation reparations what
whatever word you want to put on it
again when it comes to retaliatory
measures I will not get ahead of the
President on that Thank You Kaylee and
welcome to the podium
yes well the president said yesterday
that he has a high degree of confidence
that the corona virus originated in a
lab in Wuhan China and yet his own
intelligence agencies say they're still
investigating so does the president have
information and has he drawn a
conclusion that the intelligence
community has not yet well the
president's statement is consistent with
the other intelligence assessments while
we continue to have very limited and
dubious data from China current
assessments indicated that President
Trump's statement is consistent with
what some animal analysts believe is the
epicenter of where the virus began and I
would note that intelligence statement
you're referring to really made two
points one that this virus originated in
China two that it began through contact
with infected animals or was the result
of an accident at a laboratory in Wuhan
so I consider that consistent with what
the president said that he's seen
intelligence suggesting it could be in
the Wuhan laboratory to lean into the
idea that this started in a laboratory
whereas the statement that we saw from
the dia and I said we're still
investigating those two options that you
just laid out is the president in any
way creating mixed messaging by not
saying we're still investigating no you
know let me remind everyone intelligence
is just an estimate essentially and it's
up to policy makers to decide what to do
with that intelligence this in this case
the policy makers the president of the
United States and he'll make that
decision at the right time be close to
the side
what to do about China's has he received
any recommendations or the consequences
is he anywhere near a decision
look again I won't get ahead of the
president's decision or the timing of
that decision but he takes this very
seriously because the decisions of China
that I referenced slow walking some of
that information put American lives at
risk and rest assured this president has
one priority and that is the safety and
the well-being of American lives
[Music]
secretaries there better sense of what
your plan is are you planning to do
these in a daily basis at this point and
also will you pledge never to lie to us
for that I will never lie to you you
have my word on that as to the timing of
the briefings we do plan to do them I
will announce timing of that forthcoming
but we do plan to continue these welcome
to the podium question for you project
warp warp speed can you give us some
more details on the president said
ultimately he's in charge of this
project but will there be a day-to-day
point person on this what's the budget
for this project and when can the
American people realistically expect
there will be a vaccine available to
everyone well there is a day-to-day
point person and that's the president
the United States President Trump and
with regard to vaccines I would note
some the words of dr. Falchi which are
these going into a phase of one trial
within three months of getting the
sequence is unquestionable the world
indoor record nothing has ever gone this
fast so what the president is doing and
under the president's leadership weird
phase one faster than ever before
according to dr. Faust and that should
encourage the American people is budget
in the budget and then there's really no
other point person I mean I know the
president ultimately I guess the buck
stops with the president but he hasn't
put somebody on the on the staff I'm not
I'm not gonna get into any details as to
exactly how that works but just rest
assured we're on an accelerated pace to
a vaccine at least for this phase one
portion of clinical trials
thanks the the fact yesterday took an
action that appeared designed to allow
oil companies to access their lending
facilities so I'm wondering if the
president has spoken to chairman Cowell
about this if he's happy about the move
and if the White House is considering
any additional assistance so I won't get
into the president's personal
discussions but I would just note that
the president is always looking out for
the nearly 11 million American workers
in the oil industry I would also note
that we're filling the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve right now and we'll
buy 75 million barrels so that's the
only announcements I have on the oil
front today yes thank you
the president tweeted this morning about
the protests in Michigan he essentially
said that the governor of Michigan
should work with the protesters she
called them very good people and said
that they are very angry some of those
process I'm sure you saw included you
know heavily armed protesters members of
militia groups I wonder if the president
was speaking about those specific
members who stormed the Capitol in
Michigan when you talk about very good
people
the president was referencing generally
that in this country you have a First
Amendment right to protest I think
that's something we all treasure here
and we should rightfully you have a
right to do that constitutionally but
you must protest within the bounds of
the law he encourages everyone to
protest lawfully I'm not also too
engaged in our social distancing
guidelines which we think all Americans
should engage in you have any response
to just the imagery of you know people
with long guns essentially storming the
Capitol going into face offs with police
officers and intimidating in some way
again the president says you know that
we must protest lawfully and act within
the bounds of the law yes thank you when
the president says we did a spectacular
job of weniger Kushner's talks about a
great success story some Americans see
it as a lack of empathy once you
understand their reaction look you know
Jared Kushner has first of all done a
great job for this administration and
what I would say to that is that his
when he talked about a success story he
was talking about the story of this
administration which is a story of
mobilization for the American people the
greatest mobilization of American
industry since World War two of course
we grieve for every American life that
has been lost but we want the American
people to be confident in the response
of this administration and that is what
he was referring to the fact that in the
average year the health care industry
uses 25 million and 95 mass and we have
delivered in this short time 75 million
in 95 mass more than three times what
the health care sector uses in a year
that's extraordinary it's extraordinary
that you know some in the media were
saying that we needed a million
ventilators and this president has we
haven't we've needed far short of that
so far not not a single American has
died for lack of a ventilator and the
fact that this president can look the
American people in the eye and say I am
producing a hundred thousand ventilators
this year alongside the private sector a
hundred thousand ventilators it's three
times what we produce in the average
year I'd consider that a great success
on behalf of the American people it's
more about the tone that the policy
itself we want to give the American
people confidence that they have a
federal government that is doing
everything in our power to provide the
necessary equipment to convite to combat
this invisible enemy we grieve for the
American Lives we've said that
repeatedly I will echo that today my
heart breaks for those I pray regularly
for those who are affected by the
coronavirus but we're gonna get
confidence to the American people that
you have a federal government under
President Donald Trump that's going to
step up and give the greatest
mobilization of the private sector since
World War two
thanks for being here president Trump
mentioned the situation in Brazil few
times this week
besides talks of cutting off flights
from Brazil are there talks of in terms
of sending assistance to Brazil sending
PPE or ventilators to Brazil and his
president Trump planning to talk with
president personally well the president
has mentioned that he has sent
ventilators around the world any excess
supply we certainly look to help other
countries but you know in terms of a
specific announcement regarding Brazil I
don't have any new information for you
on that front today most important parts
of your job though is to have access to
the president can you give us some
indication that since you've been named
press secretary what kind of access do
you have to the president to get what
he's thinking and relay it to us yeah I
can tell you this I'm around the
president almost the entire day I was
just with him before I left to come out
and speak with you guys I think my staff
can attest to the fact that they have a
very hard time finding me because I'm
normally with the president and the Oval
Office
so I'm consistently with him absorbing
his thinking and it's my mission to
bring you the mindset of the president
deliver those facts so this president
gets fair and accurate reporting and the
American people get fair and accurate
information yes
thanks Kaylee just following up on
Justin's question China's blocking World
Health Organization from coming in and
investigating how this started shouldn't
external investigators be allowed in to
move on to determine one have a pandemic
started and two maybe a way that we
could X but I finding a cure for this
thing look you know there's no secret
that China stopped US investigators from
coming in it was a paramount importance
that we got into China in an expedited
fashion and that didn't happen with
respect to the World Health Organization
they have some questions of their own to
answer the United States says the
president has emphasized provides about
400 million to 500 million per year to
the w-h-o compared to China roughly 40
million a year but yet the w-h-o appears
to have a very clear China bias I mean
you look at this timeline and it's
really damning for the w-h-o and you
consider the fact that on December 31st
you had Taiwanese officials warning
about human to human transmission
the w-h-o did not make that public On
January 9th the w-h-o repeated China's
claim that the virus quote does not
transmit readily between people that was
quite apparently false On January 14th
the WH o again repeated China's talking
points about no human human transmission
at a praised China's leadership on the
22nd of January on the 23rd they said
and this is incredible the pandemic
didn't represent a public health
emergency of international concern and
even on February 29th
you had the WH Jo saying that when the
corona virus was spreading around the
world they they chose to put excuse me
political correctness first by opposing
life-saving travel restrictions the
travel restrictions this president put
in place the travel restrictions that
dr. Fauci praised as saving lives and
you have the World Health Organization
opposing a measure that saved American
lives that's unacceptable especially at
a time when the US was providing for
under two five hundred million dollars
John Taylor this time last week the
president was saying that he was not
happy with Georgia's governor Bryant
Kemp for beginning the reopening process
and the way that he was at the time that
he was a week later I've ever been to
Pete's and valleys in new cases in
Georgia but overall the trend line is
down do you know what the president's
thinking about the Georgia reopening is
the president the president is resolute
in saying that the states take the lead
here it's the the lead the decision of
governors to decide what is best for
their state that being said you know I
talked to the experts I talked to dr.
Burks I talked to dr. Falchi and they
say rightfully so this president has
always cited on the side of data which
is why he encourages all states to
follow the data-driven guidelines to
reopening all states from Georgia on
down the line should follow those
guidelines but ultimately it is the
decision of the States and one note I
would make about the president in times
of national emergency we seem to have
had a trend in this country where
presidents agregate power at the federal
level but this president has devolved
power he's invested in a principle that
I cherished I know many others do which
is federalism and I think that was the
right decision
how he feels about governor camp in the
last few days I have not spoken to him
about governor camp in the last few days
press on the lives of reopening as the
president pushes forward to reopen the
country does that mean he'll be
campaigning in those states where he
that will be reopening so I would refer
you to the Trump campaign on that
question yeah yeah thanks for being here
kingly um can you mention dr. fashion
there to go are we gonna have any more
press briefings with dr. pouching dr.
Burks and the health experts or is the
White House kind of shifting the message
to you know focus more on the economy
last on the public health aspect well
let me back up and talk to you a little
bit about how we approach disseminating
information you know when I talk with my
colleague ELISA and we plan out the
communique communications strategy for
this White House along with the
president and Ben as well you know what
we do is we say what is the best mode
for the public to receive this
information at this time and we allow
the news cycle and the needs of the
American people to guide us and you know
at the moment what we see happening and
I hinted at this in my gaggle last week
is you have 35 states and probably more
at this point with plans to reopen the
country Americans are looking to
reopening the country we've had dr.
Burks in several events this week
they've been dr. Brooks and Falchi out
on the airwaves they're really
incredible people and have done a great
service for this country but we allow
the news of the day to guide us what the
American people need to hear and right
now we're in a reopening phase which is
why you've seen the president this week
with CEOs you've seen him with small
business owners with small business
employees today with some great heroes
that have emerged from this pandemic and
I've done a lot of the hard work so
every day we approach this as how can we
disseminate this information there's a
need for information which is why I'm
here supplementing that the efforts of
this President to get the message out I
would also note he's the most accessible
president in history took questions
twice yesterday twice the day before you
hear from him quite often as well as
well as our medical experts is the task
force still meeting I guess what
what's the role of the provirus task
force we still have you know hundreds of
people a day are dying so because what
what role is a task force have versus
the economic advisory groups yeah the
task force meets regularly I go to those
meetings I'm I hear them we are dr.
Burks I should say is meticulously
reviewing the data and granular detail
am i watch them spent sometimes the
upwards of two hours in these task force
briefings so those those are still
ongoing
rest assured we want a safe reopening so
we are prioritizing the help of the
American people as well as looking
forward to reopening this country from
yesterday there is a quote that I'd like
to get forgive me in response to it said
the intelligence community also concurs
with the wide scientific consensus that
the koban 19 virus was not man-made or
genetically modified this was from the
DNI statement how do you see this state
how do you understand this then also
there was the piece in the New York
Times and that's a senior Trump
administration officials have pushed
intelligence agencies to hunt for
evidence to support the theory that Kobe
19 was made in a laboratory I can assure
you that no one is pressing the
intelligence community to come to a
determination the intelligence community
statement stands on its in perfect
concert with what the president said so
you know I encourage the media to convey
the facts to the American people which
is that we're in line as an
administration and we stand by the
intelligence community and that is
complete concert with the lifts with
what the president said yesterday
[Music]
everyone takes a weird round to that's
great yes thank you today former Vice
President Joe Biden denied allegations
of sexual misconduct against him does
president take him at his word given
that as the president has said he has
denied allegations against himself well
what I would say is that we are pleased
that the former vice president has
decided to go on the record it took him
less than what 16 hours to follow the
advice of the President of the United
States and come out and publicly address
those claims so you know we're glad to
see that he's on the record on this ask
you about some of the presidents at
moments ago in an interview he said that
Tara Reid is quote far more compelling
than anything they had with respect to
Brett Kavanaugh what did he mean by that
what is more compelling that's the
president's assessment so I would point
you back to his words I think it was a
grave miscarriage of justice what
happened with justice Brett Kavanaugh I
there's no need for me to bring up some
of the salacious awful and verifiably
false allegations that were made against
justice Cavanaugh that was an
embarrassment for the Democrat Party to
have dragged the name of a very
respectable man through the mud like
that so I'll leave it at that release
Michael Cohen from prison to home
confinement
Dudek over 19 has been reversed did the
White House directly or indirectly
intervene here no
so absolutely not I would say there but
I am glad that you brought up justice
and because look there's again a case of
injustice that is yet to be brought up
today but I certainly would like to
bring it up and that's the case of
General Michael Flynn what we've all
learned from that should scare every
American citizen the fact that you had
Jim Comey admitting in December of last
year that he violated a protocol by
directing agents to confront Flynn
something that he would not quote have
gotten away with under previous
administrations the FBI told Flynn he
didn't need a lawyer when they came to
meet with him
McCabe told FBI agents that he didn't
think Flynn was lying and then all of
that information we've learned over the
last few months and
years culminates in the fact that we
have a handwritten FBI note that says
quote we need to get Flynn to lie quote
and get him fired that was there was a
nun fart unfair targets on the back of
General Michael Flynn imma to concern
every American anytime there's a
partisan pursuit of an individual and
that's certainly at least those
questions are raised with regard to
General Michael Flynn an honorable man
who served his country when the
president fired Michael Flynn he said he
was doing so because he had lied to the
vice president and he had lied to the
FBI so given all that you've just said
it isn't it isn't it still truths and
the president still believe that Michael
Flynn lied to vice president Pence and
lied to the FBI well first let me
address that vice president Pence is on
the record about this he said he's
inclined to believe that Flynn did not
intentionally mislead him and I guess I
would turn the question on you and just
ask does it trouble you that the FBI
said we got to get Flynn to lie doesn't
that trouble you as a journalist and not
not only that as an American citizen
well it's certainly something worth
reporting it's not my job to say whether
or not it's troubling but but the bottom
line is the president said point blank
did Flynn lied to the FBI and to the
vice president and I'm just asking a
very direct question does he still
believe that Michael Flynn lied to the
FBI and lied to the vice president and
again I'd point you to the vice
president's statement that he's inclined
to believe that Flynn did not
intentionally mislead him and I'm asking
back that all of you and your coverage
endeavor to report what is a very scary
story when the FBI is saying let us get
someone to lie I've seen very scant
coverage of that it's a story worth
reporting and a story that I hope the
American people if you haven't heard it
yet are getting to hear for the very
first time
go back to the South China Sea we had an
issue come up this morning where you had
the USS ferry crossing international
maritime waters and then China same as a
society and Chinese officials are saying
that this will be a dead end endeavour
does has the president spoken with any
of the and aside on the Chinese as far
as what the United States is going to
continue doing if the u.s. maybe just
ignore these threats and keep keep going
through these international waters what
are your responses to China's increasing
aggression in the South China Sea again
I have no news to report us to the
president's conversations and for the
specifics of that I would redirect you
to the NSC yes thanks in the same pod
cast interview the president said the
Democrats would quote have to give us a
lot for aid to States I'm wondering if
you have any idea of what specifically
the White House or the president is
asking for and secondly what you'd say
to somebody like Governor Cuomo this
says you know the president's already
told me that you know a few weeks ago
that he would support this type of
assistance and why are we bailing out
you know Airlines our defense
contractors but not the states that
plate that pay teachers are first
responders
well first you brought up Governor Cuomo
so I just thought it's a good time to
remind everyone that Governor Cuomo has
praised the president's response in this
Cove in nineteen crisis saying that what
the president has achieved as a
phenomenal accomplishment and we thank
Governor Cuomo for those very kind words
but on that note with regard to funding
to States on phase four is something
that we want to start negotiating good
negotiating on immediately and get to
work on the president has said look I
will certainly look to consider helping
States who have coronavirus reasons for
the financial situation they find
themselves in but he doesn't want this
to be an excuse for decades and decades
of bad Democrat governments that have
run some of these states into a
financial predicament so he has
mentioned that in terms of the types of
things he wants to see in this phase for
I don't want to get ahead of the
negotiations but I do want to emphasize
that he has mentioned
sanctuary cities this is a really
important issue that has cost American
lives on last year a brave ice officers
arrested more than 120 thousand criminal
aliens charged with nearly 10,000
burglaries 5,000 sexual assaults 45,000
violent assaults 2,000 murders and in
the last year egregiously 5,000 human
trafficking episodes so American lives
matter our brave iseman and women matter
and it's something that he's mentioned
he'd like to see in a face for you raise
that and the president's been kind of
big about this are you explicitly
conditioning state aid on state or city
is not saying that they would have cyber
city policy no I know that
not conditioning anything but saying
that is a negotiation item that the
president will certainly bring up thanks
very much the president has in the past
deny any of the allegations from the
many women who have accused him of
sexual misconduct but for that podcast
today you seem to suggest the
allegations that Tara Reid has repeated
star or whatever you say credible than
the ones against Brett Kavanaugh um what
about the allegations that were raised
against however why should the public or
what makes them any less credible than
the allegations from Terry
the president has swiftly denied all of
these allegations that were raised four
years ago he has always told the truth
on these issues he's denied them
immediately and you're bringing up
issues like I said from four years ago
that were asked and answered and the
American people had their say in the
matter when they elected President Trump
as president of the United States but
you know the media leave it to the media
to really take an issue about the former
vice president and turn it on the
president and bring up accusations from
four years ago that were asked and
answered in the form of the vote of the
American people just come back to John's
question because Kellyanne Conway spoke
to this the other day and suggested that
two things could be true at the same
time
we have ice presidents saying it's his
belief that general Flynn may have
unintentionally misled him that's now
three years after the fact but the two
things that could have been true at the
same time was were that Flynn lied to
the vice president and also lied to the
FBI if you remove the FBI piece of that
would the president still had fired
Michael Flynn for his belief that he
lied at that point to the vice president
I mean I'm not gonna engage in a
hypothetical and that's essentially what
that would be but what I would say is
echo yet again that this was a grave
miscarriage of justice I am very glad
that the FBI thought to keep a paper
trail because what many have said for a
very long time pointing to the first few
facts I shared with you culminating in
that handwritten note I'm glad they kept
such good documentation of their intent
to slow-walk general Flynn I'm into a
trap and to essentially create as I
mentioned a grave miscarriage of justice
so FBI at least we can thank you for the
great note taking does bring up the
point that general Flynn pleaded guilty
to lying to the FBI I'm not going to get
involved in what was a matter of justice
its innocence do you not consider it a
miscarriage of justice when you have the
FBI writing we want to get someone to
lie is that a miscarriage of justice but
in the end he pleaded guilty and then
that's because you know what the answer
is
the answer's yes a lot of other people I
encourage the media to cover it because
I've watched a lot of your networks I've
read a lot of your papers I've seen a
whole lot of scant information about
Michael Flynn when there was a whole lot
of speculation about Russia Russia
Russia culminating in 40 million dollars
of taxpayer money being lost and the
complete and total exoneration of
President Trump thank you guys so much
I'm gonna cut this short now and go see
my little five-month-old here in a few
hours let me just say this the president
of 5:00 p.m. leaves today for Camp David
it's going to be working weekend he'll
be talking with heads of states with
elected officials we have a great event
coming up this afternoon and of course
done everyone should watch the Fox News
townhall with the president from 7:00 to
9:00 p.m. it'll be a camp
television and much like the highly
rated president Trump coronavirus task
force briefings have been thank you